# Slow Boring Article Clusters

Explore articles from [Slow Boring](https://www.slowboring.com/) using algorithmic grouping (i.e., clustering).
You can browse these articles by groups
at [matthagy.github.io/slowboring_article_clusters](https://matthagy.github.io/slowboring_article_clusters/).

---

## Methods

Articles are clustered based on term frequencies.
You can view the Jupyter notebook [analysis.ipynb](./analysis.ipynb)
for an overview and explanation of the methods.
That notebook also includes some simple analysis of the input data
and the resulting clusters.

The clustered used in the exploration tool are generated by
`compute_clusters.py`.
That script exports the cluster data in JSON format, written to the
file `clusters.js`.
The cluster explorer is defined by `index.html` and `ui.js`.
It uses the open source [Flexigrid](https://github.com/paulopmx/Flexigrid)
jQuery library, included in `flexigrid` directory.

## Data

The [data](./data) directory includes files of the raw data used.

### [posts.csv](./data/posts.csv)

Provides publicly available data (i.e., accessible without an account)
about Slow Boring articles. Columns are:

* `post_id` - The Substack-internal id for the article
* `date` - The data the article was published
* `title` - Title of the article
* `audience` - Whether the article is for paid subscribers only
* `comments` - Number of comments on the article
* `likes` - Number of likes
* `word_count` - Length of the article in words
* `url` - The URL of the article at slowboring.com

### [word_counts.mtx](./data/word_counts.mtx)

Lists the numbers of times that certain key terms occur within each
article.
Uses the [Matrix Market Exchange](https://math.nist.gov/MatrixMarket/formats.html)
coordinate format for a sparse matrix as most entries are zero.
I.e., most terms do not occur in most articles.

### [words.csv](./data/words.csv)

The list of terms that correspond the coordinates of the `word_counts.mtx` matrix.
Terms include single words as well as bi-grams (i.e., pairs of sequential terms).

Note that not all words and bi-grams that occur within Slow Boring articles
are included the word count matrix.
The relevant terms are determined by the following sklearn `CountVectorizer` configuration.

```python
CountVectorizer(
    ngram_range=(1, 2),
    max_features=20_000,
    stop_words="english",
    min_df=5,
    max_df=0.8
)
```